---
kind: comment
author: Rain12913
created: 1431787404
id: crb1gvj
name: t1_crb1gvj
subreddit: creepy
subreddit_id : t5_2raed
thread_id: t3_365bu3
parent_comment: t1_crb0wj0
---

Clinical psychologist who specializes in personality disorders here.  That post is simply not accurate.  I've written some extensive comments on this topic in the past and will dig one up and post it here.

Edit: The search engine on Reddit is making it impossible for me to find any of the many comments I've left on this topic over the years, so I'll write up something brief.

The distinction between psychopathy and sociopathy is a problematic one. The two terms are misused to a tremendous degree, both by lay people and also by trained clinicians. The main reason for this is that these terms are essentially attempts by two different theoretical perspectives to describe more or less the same thing. As such, they have shared a varying level of overlap through the years, though they have more or less been pretty much the same, and this is becoming increasingly true.

Psychopathy (as it has been used in the field for the past 75+ years) is a term with a psychoanalytic origin. It refers to a personality style that is classified by its reliance on a set of particularly primitive defense mechanisms (by primitive I mean "ones that are not sophisticated enough for the nuances of life as an adult"). A further description of what that means would be quite complicated and unnecessary for our purposes here, so suffice it to say that referring to someone as having a psychopathic personality is to imply that they are in the possession of a distinct set of personality traits. These traits include a tendency to manipulate others, a lack of empathy, a propensity towards cruelty, a tendency to exploit others, a need for social dominance, glibness and superficial charm, a propensity towards risk-taking behaviors, a diminished fear response, and poor behavioral control. There are many others, so as you can see, it is quite a comprehensive list of personality characteristics that may be difficult to objectively measure.

Sociopathy is the result of efforts towards turning psychopathy into a measurable, empirically-validated diagnosis: antisocial personality disorder. Since the DSM attempts to operationalize mental illness categories and define them using observable behaviors, antisocial personality disorder was created with the goal of making psychopathy easily diagnosable for purposes of treatment and research. Accordingly, it has historically eschewed some of the components of psychopathy that are more difficult to objectively measure. Specifically, until 2013, the DSM's classification of sociopathy did not include such personality traits as superficial charm/glibness or a lack of empathy, two characteristics that have often been considered the hallmarks of psychopathy. As such, that was the main distinction between psychopathy and sociopathy for a long time. However, the most recent edition of the DSM has added these traits to its diagnosis of antisocial personality disorder, therefore closing the gap between sociopathy and the traditional notion of psychopathy. Right now, the criteria for sociopathy in the DSM are pretty identical to formulations of psychopathy that you would find in other theoretical orientations.

I'm not sure how the person in your link got the idea that the two terms are used to differentiate between cases of disorder caused by nature versus nurture, but I'd imagine they're just making it up.  The DSM (or anyone else, really) does not at all attempt to distinguish cases of psychopathy/sociopathy that are "a result of trauma" from those that are not.  That's simply not something that we're capable of doing, and there certainly isn't research that substantiated that claim at all.  If anything, the people who embrace the term psychopathy tend to be quite psychoanalytic in their thinking, and therefore they stress the importance of the childhood environment in the development of pathological personality styles.  On the other hand, the people who stand by the DSM would be more likely to consider a biological basis for sociopathy.  However, these distinctions are only there because of the people who use the terms, not because of the models themselves.

Sorry if that's a bit meandering, but let me know if anyone has any questions.
