---
kind: comment
author: temorr249
created: 1400123823
id: chicib4
name: t1_chicib4
subreddit: AskReddit
subreddit_id : t5_2qh1i
thread_id: t3_25kesk
parent_comment: t1_chi6pqi
---

Something very similar happened to a good friend of mine on a 20 hour road trip. Let me set the scene for you: This guy is a very reserved, well put together young man. He doesn't talk much and when he does speak he is very polite. Lets call him John. 

So this group consisted of John, myself and 3 other guys. We were driving from Montreal  to the east coast of Canada in February, we were in Montreal for 3 days and were headed home. John was a very frugal guy, so whenever we would go out to eat and such he would just have beer, because he brought upwards of 20 peanut butter sandwiches. 

So on the diet of beer and peanut butter something in John's body was upset. There was a demon building inside of this nice young man. So here we are driving through a very snowy New Brunswick, if you have never been here its basically a flat land where no one lives. John is sitting in the middle seat in the back between me and another friend of ours. He starts to pant loudly, we kinda shrug it off as nothing. John then begins to sweat like a fat man in a sauna, he is literally dripping in sweat next to me. I can feel the heat off of him. John looks around and screams "FUCK, HELP PULL OVER!" he then rips off his shirt, his whole upper body is as red as a cherry. He starts freaking out but we are in the middle lane of a divided highway so the driver decides to wait for an exit. John continues to yell, unlike anything we have ever seen from him. "PLEASE HELP PULL OVER" he continues to rip of his pants, shoes and socks. He is reaching over to put down the windows on both sides of the car. We soon pull over onto the side of a turn off,  right in front of this nice little log cabin in the woods next to the busy highway. He immediately takes off his underwear and leaps out of the window before we even stop.

 The next thing I witness I will never be able to un-see. John is literally balls deep into the snow, butt naked and he explodes into the nasty projectile shit ever. He screams "WHY ME WHY!" as a steaming rocket of a brown peanut butter river flows over the nice white snow. He proceeds to shit almost non stop for a solid 2-3 minutes, enough time of the boys to get out and have a smoke. He then requests his underwear, we toss it to him as he sits in the middle of this snow-shit mess. He uses them to clean him self off and leaves them at the scene of the crime. He proceeds to get dressed and back into the car. We tried to ask him about it but he wouldn't elaborate. We would agree to never speak of this to his friends. 

**TL;DR Peanut Butter &amp; Beer powered rocket shits.**
