---
kind: comment
author: Solid_Waste
created: 1447279754
id: cwx068c
name: t1_cwx068c
subreddit: IAmA
subreddit_id : t5_2qzb6
thread_id: t3_3scce7
parent_comment: t1_cwwc7bm
---

This isn't even limited to their particular company.  It's a systemic problem of corporate metrics.  The simple fact is that corporate leadership has no way to visualize what's going on in their company accurately and address problems.  The head of the company can't see its own hands and feet.
  
So they use metrics to try and do this, and they only care about what they can track statistically.  There is no way to track employee quality, skill, knowledge, or customer satisfaction accurately.  None.  None at all.  But they can track a sales number.  At least they think they can.  
  
In reality, actually accurately connecting sales to a particular employee makes no sense in most companies.  Each employee is part of a team.  The guy who makes sure the toilet doesn't flood the whole place with shit is vital even if he doesn't sell *anything*.  If the place floods with shit, NO ONE IS BUYING ANYTHING.  But there isn't a statistic for number of turds avoided on the metrics spreadsheet, so no one in management sees the value of having a turd-free floor (until it's too late and it actually has turds all over it).  
  
Similarly, management performance is evaluated by the same metrics.  The pressure on managers is to make the number on the chart go up.  Not to actually make sure the business works.  Typically, over time every corporation systematically implodes under the weight of its own bullshit as it focuses on selling things that don't matter until things stop working from the inside out.  Then, when it's too late, they realize their mistake and fumble around trying to fix it.  Rinse and repeat forever.  
  
So this is the idiocy of the modern corporation.  It stumbles around looking at spreadsheets that are ultimately meaningless.  When they find a number that goes up when they do a particular thing, they convince everyone else they have found a way to improve something and everyone starts sucking each other's dicks over how awesome it is that the number goes up when they do the thing, until they realize everything else is broken or forget about it.  Nobody knows what the fuck is actually going on because everything is driven by bullshit metrics from people with no connection whatsoever to the actual practice of doing the job.
